add tutorial for RAG with DeepSeek R1 model on Sagemaker (#3455)
opensearch-project/ml-commons: docs/tutorials/aws/RAG_with_DeepSeek_Chat_model.md

  "parameters": {
    "endpoint": "api.deepseek.com",
    "model": "deepseek-chat"
  },
  "credential": {
    "secretArn": "your_secret_arn_created_in_step1",
    "roleArn": "your_iam_role_arn_created_in_step2"
  },
  "actions": [
    {
      "action_type": "predict",
      "method": "POST",
      "url": "https://${parameters.endpoint}/v1/chat/completions",
      "headers": {
        "Content-Type": "application/json",
        "Authorization": "Bearer ${credential.secretArn.my_deepseek_key}"
      },
      "request_body": "{ \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\", \"messages\": ${parameters.messages} }"
    }
  ]
}

headers = {"Content-Type": "application/json"}

r = requests.post(url, auth=awsauth, json=payload, headers=headers)
print(r.status_code)
print(r.text)
```
The script will output connector id.

sample output
```
{"connector_id":"duRJsZQBFSAM-WcznrIw"}
```

Note connector id. It will be used in next step.

## 4. Create Model and test

Login your OpenSearch Dashboard, open DevTools, then run these

1. Create model group
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/model_groups/_register
{
    "name": "DeepSeek Chat model",
    "description": "Test model group for DeepSeek model"
}
```

> Sample output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains the model group ID:
```

```
{
  "model_group_id": "UylKsZQBts7fa6byEx2M",
  "status": "CREATED"
}
```

> 2. Register model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Register the model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "DeepSeek Chat model",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "DeepSeek Chat model",
  "model_group_id": "UylKsZQBts7fa6byEx2M",
  "connector_id": "duRJsZQBFSAM-WcznrIw"
}
```

> Sample output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains the model ID:
```

```
{
  "task_id": "VClKsZQBts7fa6bypR0a",
  "status": "CREATED",
  "model_id": "VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02"
}
```

> 3. Deploy model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Deploy the model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02/_deploy
```

> Sample output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains a task ID for the deployment operation:
```

```
{
  "task_id": "d-RKsZQBFSAM-Wcz3bKO",
  "task_type": "DEPLOY_MODEL",
  "status": "COMPLETED"
}
```

> 4. Predict

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Test the model:
```

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello!"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> Sample response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains inference results:
```

```
{
  "inference_results": [
    {
      "output": [
        {
          "name": "response",
          "dataAsMap": {
            "id": "a351252c-7393-4c5d-9abe-1c47693ad336",
            "object": "chat.completion",
            "created": 1738141298,
            "model": "deepseek-chat",
            "choices": [
              {
                "index": 0,
                "message": {
                  "role": "assistant",
                  "content": "Hello! How can I assist you today? 😊"
                },
                "logprobs": null,
                "finish_reason": "stop"
              }
            ],
            "usage": {
              "prompt_tokens": 11,
              "completion_tokens": 11,
              "total_tokens": 22,
              "prompt_tokens_details": {
                "cached_tokens": 0
              },
              "prompt_cache_hit_tokens": 0,
              "prompt_cache_miss_tokens": 11
            },
            "system_fingerprint": "fp_3a5770e1b4"
          }
        }
      ],
      "status_code": 200
    }
  ]
}
```

> ## 5. RAG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 5. Configure RAG
```

> ### 5.1 create search pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5.1 Create a search pipeline
```

> Create search pipeline with [RAG processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rag-processor/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create search pipeline with a [RAG processor](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/search-pipelines/rag-processor/):
```

```
PUT /_search/pipeline/my-conversation-search-pipeline-deepseek-chat
{
  "response_processors": [
    {
      "retrieval_augmented_generation": {
        "tag": "Demo pipeline",
        "description": "Demo pipeline Using DeepSeek Chat",
        "model_id": "VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02",
        "context_field_list": [
          "text"
        ],
        "system_prompt": "You are a helpful assistant.",
        "user_instructions": "Generate a concise and informative answer in less than 100 words for the given question"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> ### 5.2 create vector database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5.2 Create a vector database
```

> Follow this [neural search tutorial](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/neural-search-tutorial/) to create embedding model, K-NN index `my-nlp-index`, and ingest data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [neural search tutorial](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/search-plugins/neural-search-tutorial/) to create an embedding model and a k-NN index. Then ingest data into the index:
```

{"text": "Chart and table of population level and growth rate for the Austin metro area from 1950 to 2023. United Nations population projections are also included through the year 2035.\\nThe current metro area population of Austin in 2023 is 2,228,000, a 2.39% increase from 2022.\\nThe metro area population of Austin in 2022 was 2,176,000, a 2.79% increase from 2021.\\nThe metro area population of Austin in 2021 was 2,117,000, a 3.12% increase from 2020.\\nThe metro area population of Austin in 2020 was 2,053,000, a 3.43% increase from 2019."}
{"index": {"_index": "my-nlp-index", "_id": "6"}}
{"text": "Chart and table of population level and growth rate for the Seattle metro area from 1950 to 2023. United Nations population projections are also included through the year 2035.\\nThe current metro area population of Seattle in 2023 is 3,519,000, a 0.86% increase from 2022.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2022 was 3,489,000, a 0.81% increase from 2021.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2021 was 3,461,000, a 0.82% increase from 2020.\\nThe metro area population of Seattle in 2020 was 3,433,000, a 0.79% increase from 2019."}
```

> ### 5.3 search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5.3 Search the index
```

> Run neural search to retrieve documents from vector database, then use DeepSeek model to do RAG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run vector search to retrieve documents from the vector database, then use the DeepSeek model for RAG:
```

```
GET /my-nlp-index/_search?search_pipeline=my-conversation-search-pipeline-deepseek-chat
{
  "query": {
    "neural": {
      "passage_embedding": {
        "query_text": "What's the population increase of New York City from 2021 to 2023? How is the trending comparing with Miami?",
        "model_id": "USkHsZQBts7fa6bybx3G",
        "k": 5
      }
    }
  },
  "size": 4,
  "_source": [
    "text"
  ],
  "ext": {
    "generative_qa_parameters": {      
      "llm_model": "deepseek-chat",
      "llm_question": "What's the population increase of New York City from 2021 to 2023? How is the trending comparing with Miami?",
      "context_size": 5,
      "timeout": 15
    }
  }
}
```

> Response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response contains the matching documents:
```

Click "Map", then the IAM role configured successfully in your OpenSearch cluster.

![Alt text](images/semantic_search/mapping_iam_role_arn.png)

## 4. Create Connector

Find more details on [connector](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/connectors/)

### 4.1 Get temporary credential of the role created in step 2.1:

Use the credential of IAM user used in Step 3.1 to assume role

```
aws sts assume-role --role-arn your_iam_role_arn_created_in_step3.1 --role-session-name your_session_name
```

Copy the temporary credential from response and configure in `~/.aws/credentials` like this

```
[default]
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=your_access_key_of_role_created_in_step2.1
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=your_secret_key_of_role_created_in_step2.1
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=your_session_token_of_role_created_in_step2.1
```

### 4.2 Create connector

Add DeepSeek API endpoint to trusted URLs
```
PUT /_cluster/settings
{
    "persistent": {
        "plugins.ml_commons.trusted_connector_endpoints_regex": [
          "^https://api\\.deepseek\\.com/.*$"
        ]
    }
}

> ```

Author: We can add after 2.19

Login your OpenSearch Dashboard, open DevTools, then run these

1. Create model group
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/model_groups/_register
{
    "name": "DeepSeek Chat model",
    "description": "Test model group for DeepSeek model"
}
```
Sample output
```
{
  "model_group_id": "UylKsZQBts7fa6byEx2M",
  "status": "CREATED"
}
```

2. Register model

```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
  "name": "DeepSeek Chat model",
  "function_name": "remote",
  "description": "DeepSeek Chat model",
  "model_group_id": "UylKsZQBts7fa6byEx2M",
  "connector_id": "duRJsZQBFSAM-WcznrIw"
}
```
Sample output
```
{
  "task_id": "VClKsZQBts7fa6bypR0a",
  "status": "CREATED",
  "model_id": "VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02"
}
```

3. Deploy model
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02/_deploy
```
Sample output
```
{
  "task_id": "d-RKsZQBFSAM-Wcz3bKO",
  "task_type": "DEPLOY_MODEL",
  "status": "COMPLETED"
}
```
4. Predict
```
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/VSlKsZQBts7fa6bypR02/_predict
{
  "parameters": {
    "messages": [
      {
        "role": "system",
        "content": "You are a helpful assistant."
      },
      {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "Hello!"
      }
    ]
  },

>   "stream": false

Reviewer 2: We can remove the `stream` parameter here since it's not in the connector request payload.

Author: Make sense, will remove this
